# CS-255
Course work for the CS-255: System Analysis and Design course at SNHU.

1. Briefly summarize the DriverPass project. Who was the client? What type of system did they want you to design?
- The client for the project, DriverPass, was a company that wanted to provide users with the opportunity to study and gain real-world practice for their driving tests. The clients were aware of the high failure rate on the DMV driving tests and wanted to find a way to help others perform better on them. To accomplish their goal, they asked us to design and build a system that provides users with up-to-date driving information to support studying and in-person driving practice. The final design resulted in a website accessible to nearly anyone that housed constantly updated DMV driving information and allowed users to schedule in-person driving appointments.
2. What did you do particularly well?
- Based on the feedback received, I excelled at discovering the various requirements for the projects we worked on. Whether it was functional requirements that determined what functionality the system should include or non-functional requirements that defined how the system should implement certain functions, I was able to define and determine them based on the information I was provided. This ability greatly helped in designing the final product, as it made it easier to ensure that all primary system functions were implemented and accounted for.
3. If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?
- If I could rework one of these documents, the main one I would revise would be the slide show presentation. While I was successful in conveying the information regarding the system, such as its various features, the diagrams describing it, and its security implementations, most of the major factors I touched upon were unnecessary and pulled focus away from the actual product. Rather than describing how a particular feature worked, I should have placed greater emphasis on why it was important to the client and the project. Additionally, I failed to include a proper introduction and closing statement, which left the presentation feeling less like a presentation. If I could rework this document, I would include a proper introduction and conclusion, as this would help the presentation present the system's main talking points and provide the audience with an opportunity to ask questions at the end.
4. How did you interpret the user's needs and implement them into your system design? Why is it so important to consider the user's needs when designing?
- User needs are important for any project, as they are the ones who will primarily use the system and its functions. To accomplish this, using the information provided by the clients and making the system easy to understand and use were significant priorities. While ensuring that all features were accounted for and implemented was important, if these features were troublesome to use or hard to understand, they would ultimately be unusable for a general audience, primarily the users. Considering the user's needs will ensure that the system is not only functional but also easy to understand and use, which is arguably more important, as it enables even the general audience to use it.
5. How do you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a system?
- My approach to designing software before this course was to use the client's information to determine the system's requirements and desired functions. I always assumed that meeting the client's requirements was enough, since the product was designed for them. However, after this course, I will now be focusing on the bigger picture by considering the needs of others who will be involved and using the system. Taking this additional step will provide further insight into what potential users of the system, whether they are customers or vendors, would also desire within the site and what would be the most sensible things to include. While their needs would be lower on the requirements list, as the client's needs come first, they would still be helpful in ensuring the system is not only functional but also easy to use consistently.
